# Bike-Rental-Timeseries-Forcasting-on-AWS-DeepAR
The Amazon SageMaker DeepAR forecasting algorithm is a supervised learning algorithm for forecasting scalar (one-dimensional) time series using recurrent neural networks (RNN).When your dataset contains hundreds of related time series, DeepAR outperforms the standard ARIMA and ETS methods. You can also use the trained model to generate forecasts for new time series that are similar to the ones it has been trained on.

The training input for the DeepAR algorithm is one or, preferably, more target time series that have been generated by the same process or similar processes. Based on this input dataset, the algorithm trains a model that learns an approximation of this process/processes and uses it to predict how the target time series evolves. Each target time series can be optionally associated with a vector of static (time-independent) categorical features provided by the cat field and a vector of dynamic (time-dependent) time series provided by the dynamic_feat field. SageMaker trains the DeepAR model by randomly sampling training examples from each target time series in the training dataset. Each training example consists of a pair of adjacent context and prediction windows with fixed predefined lengths. To control how far in the past the network can see, use the context_length hyperparameter. To control how far in the future predictions can be made, use the prediction_length hyperparameter.

## Input/Output Interface for the DeepAR Algorithm
DeepAR supports two data channels. The required train channel describes the training dataset. The optional test channel describes a dataset that the algorithm uses to evaluate model accuracy after training. You can provide training and test datasets in JSON Lines format. Files can be in gzip or Parquet file format.

When specifying the paths for the training and test data, you can specify a single file or a directory that contains multiple files, which can be stored in subdirectories. If you specify a directory, DeepAR uses all files in the directory as inputs for the corresponding channel, except those that start with a period (.) and those named _SUCCESS. This ensures that you can directly use output folders produced by Spark jobs as input channels for your DeepAR training jobs.

By default, the DeepAR model determines the input format from the file extension (.json, .json.gz, or .parquet) in the specified input path. If the path does not end in one of these extensions, you must explicitly specify the format in the SDK for Python. Use the content_type parameter of the s3_input class.
